🔥 A web utility case of Segmenting images using Meta AI's SAM.

> Under construction, more features are coming...

## Problem

This project depends on the result of python script to achieve segmenting images. However, netlify doesn't support languages beyond TS/JS/GO, and Vercel serverless function has a timeout limitation of 10s at free plans (so does netlify).

It won't be free due to AI SAM computations at other belike platforms. So at current stage, _this project is fully working only under development env_.

If you want a deployed version, you have to be aware of all the potential costs.

## what have done

- [x] generate embeddings with python scripts when consuming a next api endpoint (currently locally)
- [x] host onnx model file in cloud with Aliyun OSS
- [x] host generated embedding npy files in cloud with Aliyun OSS
- [x] tackle the cors issue of uploaded npy files
- [x] tackle the host issue of sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth file
- [x] put all pieces together and make the app run
- [x] support uploading image
- [x] refact: support local generate and store embedding files with uploaded image eliminating any process with cloud.

## what to do

- [ ] support extracting specific piece of image
- [ ] cooler interaction with each piece
- [ ] refact: support local host onnx model
- [ ] deploy with docker on other platform
  - [ ] build new CI & CD pipeline
- [ ] use webassembly approach

> warning: Downloading fee generated by aliyun oss is significant, therefore the refactor is a must to do.

## Tips

> 20230507

- There is python environment issue which is it will throw an ENOENT error when executing python script
- Theoretically, this can be resolved by using netlify function or docker to keep dev and prod the same running env
- But netlify do not support deploy with docker, so the netlify function approach seems to be a good one.

> 20230508

- There is a timeout limit of 10s, and it is not available for custom setting if you are in a free plan;
- So netlify function approach is a deadend.

> 20240509

- Any code deployed at netlify will be run in Lambda function. which only support js/ts/go, see [forums](https://answers.netlify.com/t/spawn-python3-enoent-when-running-a-python-script-in-nextjs-api/91823/4?u=jerenyaoyelu). So deployment using netlify is a big deadend.
- Compiling python to webassembly and invoking wasm file directly seems to be a workable approach. Give it a shot!
